So now is the time to see some code in action.
Let me show you all this in action.
We are going to create a simple bean, a simple person bean,
and just play with the Reflection API to get information to get
information on the content of this class,
method, and fields.
Let us see the first elements we have seen from the Reflection API,
and for that, I just created a Person class here with two fields,
name and age; a String; and an integer.
This Person has two constructors,
an empty one and a constructor that takes two arguments,
a name and an age.
It also has the static factory method and then two
getters and setters for the two properties,
name and age, and at last, a toString method.
This is a very classical JavaBean.
I just created a PlayWithReflection class,
and we are going to type in some code in that class.
So the first thing I would like to show you is how to get
a reference on a class from its name.
I'm going to type in the name of that class in a string of characters,
and this class is org.paumard .reflection .model .Person.
From this string characters, I can use Class.forName,
pass this personClassName as a parameter.
Of course, this method is going to throw exceptions.
We are not interested in those exceptions,
so let me throw them through the main class.
Of course, you should never do this kind of thing in a production code.
Let us put the result in a variable, this is the personClass,
and let me print out the result, Person class = personClass,
and run the code.
And you can see that we have loaded this class and we have
obtained a reference on that class using Reflection and
using this forName method call.
Now let us get some information from this class.
The first thing we are going to get is the fields from that class, getFields.
This returns an array of fields, lets me print out the content of this array,
those are the Fields, and I'm going to print out.
I've got this very useful method, Arrays.toString.
I can pass any array to it,
and it will automatically iterate over the elements of
the array and print each element.
Let me run this code, and you can see that, in fact, this array is empty.
Why?
Because the getFields method returns only the public fields of the Person
class and all the super classes of this person class.
And since there are no such fields,
this getFields method just returns an empty array.
Let me do the same, but this time, calling the getDeclaredFields.
We are going to call this array declaredFields.
Those are the DeclaredFields.
Copy/Paste this here, run the code,
and you can see that this time we have two fields that have been printed out.
The first one is the name field of the Person class,
and the second one is the age field of the Person class.
Those are two private fields,
and indeed the declared fields of a class are the private fields of that class.
Let me do the same for the methods.
We are going to get the methods from the Person class,
put this in an array, let us call it Methods,
and this time, I'm going to iterate over this array,
foreach method in methods.
Just print out this method, and I'm going to print out here,
Methods, run this code.
And here, you can see that we have a much longer list than expected probably.
First, we have the public methods from the Person class,
toString, getName, of, setName, setAge, and getAge,
and then the public methods from the Object class.
When you call the getMethods on a class,
you get all the public methods from that class and all
the classes this class is extending.
So since every class in Java is extending,
by default,
the Object class you always have the methods from the Object
class when you called getMethods on a class.
Let us go back here and do the same for the Declared Methods.
We are going to call it declaredMethods and call the getDeclaredMethods here,
and here, this is the getDeclaredMethods.
Let us run this code.
I can see that the declaredMethods are only the methods from
the Person class including the private, package protected,
and protected methods, if any.
Let me filter out the non-static method of this class.
We are going to do things like that,
create a stream on this declaredMethod array,
and filter out all the methods that are non-static,
so I'm going to get the modifiers of that method.
This getModifiers is an int.
And if I want to know if this int of modifiers contains the bit,
let's state that this method is static.
I need to pass it to Modifier.isStatic factory
method and then print out the result.
Let me just add Static Declared Method, run the code,
and here, you can see that we have only one Declared Method that is Static,
which is of factory method that we added to the Person class.
So here are the basic methods and basic patterns offered by
the Reflection API that you can use to introspect a class and get information from that class.